# Twitter-Deplatforming-Analysis
A recreation of Stephan McCabe's analysis on Twitter's deplatforming efforts following the capital riots on January 6th. Examining its effectiveness on halting the spread of disinformation on the platform. This repository is technically a recreation of the recreation. I originally recreated the analysis for my Computational Social Science class during my grad program of the same name, October 2024. We were tasked with pulling the data from the github repo as an exercise but were eventually given a properly formatted csv containing all of the data in order to streamline everyone's analysis. I no longer have access to that file as of the time of me creating this repository and typing this readme. In this repository you will find a mccabe.py which will create a new mccabe_data csv. It uses requests to pull the raw csv through an https request from the github repository of another recreation. Run the mccabe.py first (is what I would say if I hadn't also included the csv it will create in the repository). The only caveat is, in the original analysis when calling mccabe_data.iloc[0] in order to identify the number of tweets labeled as misinformation and for not_fake I got 11512.0, n I got 12387.0 and not_fake_liberal I got 1030.0. Those same groups in my current recreation the numbers changed to: not_fake: 4604.0, n: 4954.0 and not_fake_liberal: 362.0. This clearly means that I had less data and I am still investigating why that is the case. Regardless, the process is all the same, except I have less tweets to conduct my analysis on. It is possible the repo I did my pull request from did not have all the parts of the data, or perhaps there is a pull issue but I am investigating what it is. As soon as I find the reasoning I will update this repo with the complete dataset.

Once you have the dataset downloaded, you can run the mccabe_recreation.ipynb. It will take you through my procedure to complete a Difference in Differences analysis, draw conclusions as well as conduct a Principal Components analysis for an extra layer of exploration to see what information we can draw from the data. Most of my notes and conclusions I have left unchanged, because the original conclusions were drawn from the full set of data and are likely more accurate than this recreation. As aforementioned, I will be updating this soon. Until then read my conclusions and please let me know your thoughts.
